>> Brian Holt: So, let's make React
actually keep track of that state.
So, the first thing we wanna do is
we need to give it an initial state.
So, above render put a function
called getInitialState.
>> Brian Holt: I suppose
something I didn't talk about with regards
to ES6, the syntax of declaring functions,
this is called enhanced
object literal syntax.
Most of us are used to seeing like that,
right.
But I told you,
ES6 is about not writing function.
So, they now allow you to
write that just like this.
Same thing,
just need it a little bit shorter.
Okay, so you have getInitialState and what
we're gonna do here it's going to return
the first state of search you wanna have.
So we're gonna say,
return an object with searchTerm
of, I'm just gonna put
a random string here, so
you can kinda see how this propagates out.
Eventually, this will
just be empty string.
But we're gonna say,
this is the default string.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so save that.
So now, we have this bit of state
that's being tracked on search, right?
And we're just going to
make input the value of
input be this.state.searchTerm, right?
So now, the value of input is always going
to correlate to what's in searchTerm.
And just for demonstration purposes,
we'll change this back later, but
I'm gonna make the h1 reflect it as well,
this.state.searchTerm.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So, if we save that,
>> Brian Holt: Come back over here.
First of all, if you have your console
open, it's gonna yell at you for
a good reason, but
it also says this is the default string.
And if you come over here and
say, this is the default string,
now try and type in it.
Congratulations, you broke the browser.
>> Brian Holt: This is
another big point of frustration for
new developers approaching React.
Especially, if you're coming
from something like Angular or
Ember, where the two way
data binding is free.
It is not free in React and
that is also by design.
Because if you've ever had a debugging
problem with two-way data binding,
it is the worst because there's so
much magic going on there.
And at least for me, when there's
problems with magic, it's really ungood,
[LAUGH] to put it lightly.
>> Brian Holt: So,
let's talk about why this doesn't change.
Why specifically we broke an input.
That's actually really hard to do it's
hard to break inputs with JavaScript.
So, every time I punch a key into my
keyboard that fires off an event.
And React is listening for
all of these events.
And every time it kicks off an event,
React says, something happened.
I'm gonna kick off a re-render and
this is all for free.
This is all stuff that React
is just doing for you.
So it says, cool, go ahead and
re-render search.
It goes through and it says,
okay, I had this input and
the value of this input is
this.state.searchTerm, right?
And that's this right here.
When we have these events,
what is modifying search term?
>> Brian Holt: Nothing, right?
Nothing modifies it, so
it just keeps staying the same.
So, every time it kicks of a re-render,
it just always gets re-rendered
back to the way it was.
Hence, it never changing, right?
So, every time you type,
nothing goes in there.
So basically, you have to give it
a pathway to modify that state.
Make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Is it literally like
capturing the event and just like not
propagating it, just capturing it,
so the browser doesn't get it?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I think, events don't
escape react, so I don't believe you can
listen above and catch those events.
It's by design like if you're
going to be using React,
you should be using React, right?
And you shouldn't be trying
to play on the outside of and
feed stuff into React cuz that's just
gonna make things a lot worse than you
want it to be.
>> Brian Holt: So,
we have to give this input
an on change listener.
So, we're just gonna say, onChange.
I'm gonna say this.handleSearchTermChange.
There's nothing special about
this particular method name.
But I always call it that handlers,
handle blah, blah, blah, right?
For me,
it's just a really useful way of knowing.
Okay, this is a event handler.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
and then I'm going to create a method by
the same name, handleSearchTermChange,
that takes in an event.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
this event technically is
a React synthetic DOM event,
which is basically their
imitation of an event.
However, its API is precisely the same
as the MDM normal browser event.
So, you can just actually read the MDM and
go by that.
But I just didn't want anyone
to be surprised by that.
So, what I am going to do here
is I'm gonna say, this.setState,
>> Brian Holt: ({searchTerm:
event.target.value})
>> Brian Holt: So, event.target.value.,
this should probably look familiar to you
if you've written any sort of direct DOM
manipulation before,
specifically with event listeners.
This is just the API to pull
out whatever was in the input.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
It's talking about this.setState,
this is the gateway,
the only gateway to
modifying state in react.
If you want to change
something up here in state,
the only way to do it is
through the set state API.
So, you just give it an API of it,
of basically your delta.
Your dif,
the thing that you want to change.
The reason why I say that, let's say if
I have another piece of state here like,
sort ascending, something like that.
This does a shallow merge for you.
Basically, object that assigned.
In fact, it might literally use object
data sign, so it will leave sort alone.
You don't have to pass in the whole state.
It's fine just give you the things
that you want to change.
The only thing is that it
doesn't do a deep merge.
So, if you have like deeply nested data,
you do have to worry about that yourself.
Okay, so setState, that's how that works.
You don't need to sort
there cuz we're not doing
that.
>> Brian Holt: So,
what setState will do is it will
update the state object and
then it will kick off another re-render
and then you'll actually get these,
the UI will reflect
whatever is in the state.
So, if we save that and refresh,
now if you start messing
around with this.
>> Brian Holt: All right,
notice that this changes along with it.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
>> Brian Holt: Any questions about that?
>> Brian Holt: So, that's the thing to
keep in mind is setState is
the gatekeeper to modifying state.
There is no other way to do it.
>> Brian Holt: There's no
other way you should do it, I should say.
[LAUGH] Always put like
the asterisks at the end.
I'll show you.
You can do it this way.
You can say this.state.searchTerm
= event.target.value.
There's no magic to what state is.
It's literally just the object
that you're keeping in state.
They're not keeping that from you.
The problem with this is
no one's watching, right?
No one's watching this.state for
changes, so
it doesn't know that anything changed,
right?
So, I modify this.
It's not going to kick off a re-render.
It did modify the state, but
now the state and the UI are out of sync,
which is a bad thing, right?
So you say, well how do I fix it?
You can say, this.forceUpdate.
>> Speaker 2: Question.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Is there any shortcut for
doing a deep merge in such state?
Like using previous state and do object
assign with the previous state and
then update the change?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
that sounds pretty good to me.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] I
think they're asking for a shortcut.
>> Brian Holt: There's no further shortcut
to that.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So, this forceUpdate,
this ends up being bad because this says,
update right now.
Something that's really nice React
will do for you behind the scenes.
Notice I had an event, which would
normally kick off a re-render, but
then I call setState right here, right?
It's actually smart enough,
it being react,
is smart enough to batch
that into one re-render.
So basically, when you call setState,
that's actually an asynchronous function
that's going to schedule an update.
An event, it's going to empty that
buffer and into one setState, so that's
only updating the bare minimum of things
possible to keep your app performing.
As soon as you call this.forceUpdate,
it's just like a sledge hammer.
So it's like, nope.
Just update everything right now.
So I would say, I'll be you a lot of
React developers don't even know that
this.forceUpdate exists.
Because you don't ever need it.
Really ever.
The only time that you do, would ever use
forceUpdate in a non bad way is if
you had to integrate with jQuery or
something like that or D3.
Actually, D3 would be really
a good example of that.
Because you have D3, D3 needs to be
a master of some of its own data.
And then,
it needs to tell React just like, hey,
React I changed so much stuff and
I need you to like re-render.
So D3 will call back out React and
say, force update.
But integrating with other libraries
is pretty much the only reason I ever
use force update.
So, don't do this just use setState.
Use setState all the time,
all over the place.
It's the happy path just do that, but
just note that force update is
available to you if you need it.
>> Speaker 3: Are we gonna do
any discussion of what actually
happens during a re-render,
like the way the diffing algorithm works?
>> Brian Holt: No.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: But that brings up
a saline point.
Notice like I actually have,
I don't think I said the word
virtual DOM at all today, right?
Which when we have
a conversation about React,
that almost is one of the first
things people brings up,
it has the virtual DOM and my response to
that is, who gives a shit, I don't care.
React virtual DOM makes, it doesn't
make React desirable it just makes it
visible in my opinion and I thinks that's
pretty good assertion to make, right.
It doesn't really matter what React
is doing underneath the hood, right?
It just matter that it works and
it's fast enough.
>> Speaker 4: So,
let me ask you this if you ever run
into a problem where you needed a deep
understanding of that to debug it?
>> Brian Holt: Mm-mm.
>> Speaker 4: Never?
>> Brian Holt: I don't think so.
>> Speaker 4: That's impressive.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, that's a bunch
of stuff about the virtual DOM,
I have no idea how it works.
And it's about to totally
change when they move to fiber,
the fiber architecture.
>> Speaker 4: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: But this
also brings up another good point of
how to think about writing components.
If you think about writing jQuery code,
you basically have this kind of
spaghetti code,
that kind of just like, I click this.
This changes this variable.
And then I click this.
And it just kind of gets this built
up amount of state over time, right?
And so, if you have to debug a problem
with a jQuery spaghetti code app.
You kind of have to think
about your code and
your state being modified over time,
right?
And this time element makes understanding
what's happening in your app really,
really, really difficult.
It's probably, in my opinion,
the most difficult part about debugging
a non-React app is you have to
worry about state over time.
The way that React kinda sidesteps
this successfully is it says,
we're going to eliminate
the time component from this.
And basically you say, okay,
given these props in this state,
my app looks like this.
So, instead of worrying
about your app over time,
you think given this snapshot,
this is what this app looks like.
Right, so given these sets of props,
I have this search component.
>> Speaker 2: Question,
if I don't want to update my
search on every key press,
would it be okay to use force update?
>> Brian Holt: If
you don't want to update your state.
>> Speaker 2: On each key
press.
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna go with no.
I don't think that's okay [LAUGH].
I think that's a bad idea.
>> Speaker 2: All right, next question.
Is there a way to stop the re-render for
debugging purposes?
>> Brian Holt: Not that I'm aware of nor
do I think you want to.
>> Brian Holt: I mean,
I guess, use the the debugger,
right, use the browser debugger.
That's probably what I would
say if that's important to you.